Okay, so we discussed a couple of topics in this. One of them, I'll go one by one,
the usability where we are currently using. We talked about using it for
chatbots, for ADM, Adam TLF coding standards, general coding support and
automation. I think there was somebody who also asked if we could even generate
specifications from SAPs and study documents so that you could complete
the loop like, you know, specs as well as code generation. We talked about where we
are using it in clinical operations. One, I think there's somebody who is using it
to improve operational efficiency and another person also indicated that they
are using it for signal detection for safety monitoring. In terms of
implementation strategy, we wanted to break these problems into manageable
pipelines, start with POCs and leverage domain knowledge as a key asset.
You want to take the next one? Thank you. And some of the issues and other barriers
that were discussed, in terms of the technicality, like data privacy came up a
lot and how do you handle sensitive clinical data from not, you know, falling
off? And there was also traceability, repeatability, and how do you control the
quality? And hallucination of the AI itself was also mentioned. And this other
aspect of, I guess, in terms of implementation, people trying to wipe
code into producing a manageable solution which doesn't seem to work. So
these are some of the technical implementation issues that were
discussed. In terms of the organizational hurdles, broader implementation like
management not being on board just because of the habits they are used to
and the return of investment challenge, validation, repeatability as well. And
there is also a need for comprehensive user training when especially when
trying to implement a process change using AI. There's also concerns about job
displacement due to AI that were mentioned. And finally regulatory and
compliance like maintaining an audit as well as ensuring complete documentation
and transparency of pathways. And how do you ensure it's meeting the industry
quality standards? And finally implementing proper guardrails and
controls on sensitive data in terms of the regulatory where some of the other
issues discussed.
