So yeah, we had a good discussion.
I'm going to differentiate probably between the more
innovative CROs that I think are here versus the more
traditional groups that tend to dominate the industry a lot
but are obviously a big part of what's going on.
So the consensus view is that there's
a big challenge in the CRO space because one,
SAS is still a big part of the workflow and the process
that everybody is working through and dealing with.
And so the requirements to upskill people
and to change that paradigm, it falls a bit on the CRO.
And it's a decision that they have to make in terms of how
they're looking at the market.
And so I think a lot of these groups
are looking for maybe more guidance from the sponsor side
or perhaps sponsors that are more set on a certain path
as opposed to expecting them to manage both.
And in that sense, they've become a bit of a bottleneck
because they're trying to figure it out on their own
but they don't always know where
to go in some of these strategies.
I think the other thing is though
that we did talk about on the other side of that,
CROs also can be a really great resource for organizations
that are looking to make this transition
because they have a lot of internal experience working
on a lot of different studies and projects
across a lot of different clients.
So they're not often set up to be consultants.
They're really more kind of order takers
or process-focused organizations.
But they're pivoting a bit to try
to support more of those activities
as clients are demanding it of them.
Yeah, I mean, there was a lot of discussion around
do sponsors understand that the upskilling and the change
is taking time and that there are certain requirements
that need to be dealt with?
And I think there's a question there
as to whether a lot of sponsors understand that.
But it also just kind of fits in
with the business model and the expectations.
The other big, I guess the other big topic
everybody discussed is the importance
of being part of an organization like this
because there's a lot of information available to people
as they're trying to work through some of these topics.
And perhaps an emphasis of getting more CROs involved
in this discussion could be pretty useful
because they are a pretty big player
in the overall kind of ecosystem that we all work in.
Thank you.
